Live from Kenmore Square
in Boston and spanning BU's vibrant
global campus, Boston University and
BU Virtual welcome you to this week's
live session. Turn on your
camera, mute your microphone, raise
your Zoom hand for questions, and keep
your chat window open for important
information. Now get ready to engage
in an educational experience that is
powerfully online. This is BU Virtual. Let me open the
chat up. Sorry. Okay. Oh, you have a new
color in the chat. Very good. So what we're
going to do today is look at the,
I have to get it. We're just going to
talk about the final project, and then
I'll go through that and answer any
questions you have. Um, and let me bring it up. There we go. Okay. Um, and there's a
lesson which, uh, you should review,
but I wasn't gonna talk too
much about that. Um, deployment and
monitoring, uh, is an important
subject, which I know very little about. So I'll, what is this doing? Let me move on here. Yeah, Thanksgiving
break. No, no, no. This is
the wrong month. Wrong, wrong semester. Three weeks to go. And let me just
dispense with this. Of course, deployment's
important uh how do you how do you take
a model that you've created and put it
in the real world um you've had some uh
you have other teachers uh in other modules
um who were who were teaching about
uh databases and integrating with data
sources and um i think I think that's probably
a better source. Their entire, I
was just looking at Medium, this blog
service, article service, and
recommending courses. And there's a
couple of very good courses in deployment
where they do an entire 16 lectures
on deployment and monitoring and
how to integrate your system into a
business context. And that's probably
the way to go, to do it in one.
I wrote a lesson, read through it,
to get some ideas. The main thing I would
take away from that is that you need some
sort of infrastructure that you're working
within. There are systems which do it for
you, and that's probably the way we're all
going to go. So then it's a matter of finding
the right system to integrate your product
into the business. But a very important
subject, which I hope that you
take a look at. But let's return
to any questions at all about
everything. I'm just going to go through
the final report. Matt, putting you on
notice, maybe you can mention, you know,
you can talk a little bit about what what
good answers would be. I'll talk through the
code part and I'll talk about everything,
but maybe at some point you can
chime in with some advice about how to
answer things well. But are there any
questions about anything whatsoever? I
have taken care of all of the regrade
requests I have. Sometimes people send
them to me by email, so i may have missed
one or two of those but happy to happy to take
a look um anything at all sung yes you
always have a question so yes go oh so professor
um as i mentioned for milestone two um
for me i did merge the uh some of the categories
could only make sense yeah well because
because two of them are definitely the same
yes the one that only differed by the yeah
so that's obviously not a mistake right that
it was done so there was no way getting
around otherwise i know for sure it would have
been wrong so i also made some recommendations
i did you look at but in that case
did you look at the um at the samples to see
if they were in any way different i didn't
go into that but the fact that they came
from the same newspaper and somebody wrote it
incorrectly it i think that was a mistake in
labeling somebody made a mistake yeah so i
mean because i knew that there were other
categories i just looked at the ones that are
made since i merged those there could be
more so um i i made some recommendations at
the end when i was learning reflection what
i could do to make it better do you expect
us to incorporate those recommendations for
the final paper or just go oh we've done so far
basically no explain what you did give me
your reasoning yeah so can i go up beyond
what i did for milestone to for the final
project for the coding and as too much as i
can to make it as good as possible is that
you should absolutely make it as good as
possible i mean i don't i mean i don't know
what's good enough and there's more i mean i'll
do the best i can as good as possible and
then you don't put limits on how much better
you want us to do but there's no limit on
that right there's no upper bound on how good
you can be okay and then we're not getting
a notebook we're just taking the notebook
and then making our own and should we start
with a brand new let's let when i start to
review you can ask whatever question you
want the sky is the limit there we go yes john
okay great thank you yeah any other questions
about anything in particular um you got
your grades for milestone one and matt and i
just talked about grading milestone two
um we'll we'll try to get them back before
your final uh is done but i don't know if that's
possible we'll try well that's all
i can say um but any questions at
all about anything yes james yeah i have
a question it's not related to milestone
two okay it's related to deployments So
when we deploy our model to, let's say,
another customer's environment, should
we be using their cloud system or because
it's not trying? You can use whatever
they want you to use. How does that work?
Like, how does that work? I don't know
much about it. You don't know? Yeah,
it's interesting. There's a lot of
different systems. Maybe somebody here among
the students. um there's a lot of
different systems but basically my understanding
is you're going to be told to use the
xyz system that we use in-house and you're
going to have to learn you know what i
mean they will use uh either some standard
or boutique you know maintenance product
and uh unless it's a very small little
company you're not you're not going to
have much to do with it think i mean the system
administrators are probably going to
run things you'll get reports i mean the
main thing is you get reports on what you know
how it's doing and the the most important
thing for you because probably you're not
you're not in there maintaining it uh as
a system right uh you know part of the system
but what you will have to do is get reports
on what it's doing some kind of monitoring
and see if it's drifting see if things
are changing because okay you know i mean that's
probably the major role for the data
scientist i i i'm flipping about about this
material because i've never done it um but
i'm also flipping about a little bit because
it's usually out of your hands in a in a normal
size company unless somebody tells me
something else somebody who knows something
among the students here um okay usually you
hand it off to somebody else that's that's
my understanding and then you've got to
monitor it right um okay you know maybe in a
smaller company you're in charge of all of it
i don't know um maybe you start your own
company maybe you're you know what i mean so
it's right it's hard to say but and there's
a bazillion different approaches you know i
looked at this and it was so there's just
so many little details depending on you know
where you are and um a lot of models are not
deployed outward right they're deployed inside
for monitoring or for whatever reason
um yeah mommy said you gave it oh i heard
okay i thought somebody had a comment um so i
i'm sorry i'm not i'm not very knowledgeable
about these things. And so I hesitate
to tell you much about it. But have
a conversation with chat and look for,
you know, look for blog posts. I've
read a bunch of them. There's a very good
looking, if you're interested in this,
there's some very good resources I could send
you. There's a whole course that somebody's
designed about deployment sure and
please you know if you remind no let me make
a reminder okay thank you um but i i i would
just be honest it's something i've never
i've never done and so i'm hesitant to be
you know the teacher about it anyway thank
you let me see uh vid about deployment i'll
i'll put it on uh, I'll make an
announcement. Okay. Cool. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Any, anybody else
has anybody here, uh, done any deployment
or monitoring of a product
that you created? Anybody? Databricks. I've heard of it.
Is that a system? Michael, Is that a
deployment system? I've heard about
it as well. I think it's supposed
to be kind of a platform where
you can, you know, conduct pretty much
anything you need in the entire data science
life or the data life cycle. Yeah. I mean,
you hand it off to a system and then
you got to learn the system and they all do
the same sorts of things. but I'm hesitant you
know I really haven't wanted to get into
you see one of the things that bugs me
you know you read some interesting looking
blog post and it turns out all they want
you to do is use this one application and
they're gonna tell you how wonderful it is
it's like I'm not gonna learn anything by just
looking at this one application so I've
really resisted that and we did we We did
use Optuna in 603, and there are systems for
tuning, helping to tune neural networks.
But I've kind of resisted that, and you
may have to do that in a company. They may
say, look, you're going to use this thing,
and we all use this. But Databricks, I
think, is one of the options, and I looked
at a couple of them, and there's an API and you
know you follow the instructions and I
don't know it's a little it's a little
unsatisfying to me that kind of computing but
that's probably the way it's done yeah yeah
for sure I'm not too familiar with it as
well but I think one thing I do know I think
to James's question I think Databricks plugs
into the major cloud platform so I'm sure
yeah I don't know yeah okay yeah that
makes sense then it makes sense the podcast has
a full framework to everything programming
framework data link ai everything yeah yeah
i and i sure you're gonna have to learn
many such systems in your career you know
change companies you gotta learn a new
infrastructure um but anyway uh sound yes
another question best i have a general question
so um cloud just acquired biotech company
that specializes in development of using AI for drug development company for $400
million, something. I could be all, but
something like that. What is the industry
headed in the direction of integrating AI
to different domains at this point? Have
you heard? Because everybody's trying
to do it, yeah. Because there'll be
cloud and open air chat GPT pretty much
those are two leading AIs right so they
will be the ones I think Claude's I think
Anthropik is going to pull ahead that's
what I'm reading I'm not I'm not believing
that chat GPT is going to survive
I don't know I'm going to switch
Claude I just haven't done it in the middle
of the semester but anyway Anthropik
yeah they're building all sorts of like this
mythos you know, for critical infrastructure
and cybersecurity. They're building
out, that's a lot of the
data center work. That's my
understanding. And I'm just reading about
this secondhand. I don't have
any contacts. But you know, the
data centers, they're not just running another
version of ChatGPT, you know, they're
running a lot of specialty models
for companies um and boutique models based
on you know one of their foundation models
and then they they build it out um but
i'm i'm i'm very interested in anthropic
i i i do they own the data center that
they have or they're leasing it from somebody
else do you know i don't have any
detailed information on that okay i just
wanted because i think companies are building
their own and the others are renting
sure okay okay thank you but i i'm just
reading what you're reading i don't have
any yeah when i read the news yeah i've
read a couple of blogs yeah but i read
somebody called uh named gary marcus and and he
is uh he is very critical of chatubuti and more
enthusiastic about claude so i guess about
anthropic in general because what they're
trying and what he has argued for a
long time is that the scaling is is going to
run out of steam and it is it has and that if
you want progress you have to build in more
kinds of functionality reasoning and logic
and planning and all the things that we've
done in ai forever he's an old time ai guy
um but but just just this uh text-based
model you know uh it's running out the scaling
is running out of steam. You can't just
keep scaling and it'll get better and better
and better. And AGI, which is total BS. Uh, anyway, some
people, the full framework that the only
gave me this due to sheer power, one
could use for battery. Yeah, yeah. That's
what I've been reading about. Uh,
I haven't finished reading about it, but
it's, it's a really disruptive time for
lots of reasons. But we'll see. We'll see. Never a dull
moment, right, in this career? Yeah,
thank you. Anyway, okay, let's move on.
I'm happy to give my unlettered opinions
about many subjects, but I prefer to
talk about the assignment. Okay,
let me share. and let me see if that's
yes there we go i'm just pulling this up
on uh on uh on github so uh okay so you know
when it's and it's due you have many days
to do it um there's going to be two parts
okay remember this is a group submission uh
and you have two parts okay there's a notebook
and this is the let me just i'll catch it but
a notebook and then a technical report uh
i said eight to ten but eight is probably
closer to the mark um but i want this to be,
and you're going to have some graphics and
appendices, whatever. Um, so don't worry too
much about the length. Um, but, but this is to
keep you from handing in three pages and
thinking you're done. Uh, so the idea of the
notebook would be, and you know, I've
done this in my career. I've done a number
of projects, just not for a business,
but for my own work. And when you
finish a project, Boy, do you
want to archive everything and make
sure you have it. You know, if you don't do that,
then you have to, later on, you find
out you want to revive something or
somebody asks you a question or somehow
it comes up. Years later, somebody will
write you a letter, you know, asking
about some publication and wanting to,
you know, whatever. And when you haven't
kept, when you haven't done your
final accounting, it's a problem. So get
used to doing it. I know it's a pain, but
you have to do it. But basically what
you're going to do is have
everything, you know, the pipeline,
however, whatever you did with the data
set, your final model, you do not have to
include all the, it's not the sum
of everything you did in milestones
one and two, visualizations, analytical
It's a repository so that you could pick
it up again and read through and get all
the significant things that you understood that
happened and all the code and, you know, so
you could pick it up in a year. If you've
ever written a lot of code, I've said this
before, when you're writing a lot of code,
you can look at something that you just wrote
last week and you go, I have no memory of
writing this. i have no idea what it does and
if you don't comment if you don't provide
guidance uh you're in trouble you know and
also you know we want the graders to to look at
it and this is your final chance to to uh
present the code in a professional way um and
so let's uh let's look through it's a Each of
these is 100 points. So, you know, divide
this up however you want among your
team. I try to make these, the milestones
and the various things, the submissions,
I try to make them so you can divide
them up, right, and check with each
other. I always want you to get together
and think about it. But keep this as
organized as you can. Um, so a very short,
and, and, you know, probably a lot of this
is cutting and pasting from your, your,
uh, your milestones. Uh, so maybe, you know,
one person does this and two of you work
on the report. If I had a team of three,
that's what I'd do. Cause this is a little
easier, I think, because really you're trying
to boil down what you did in one and two
and then finalize it. And, you know,
you're going to have one final model,
you probably did most of the work
in Milestone 2. But here's your
chance to describe, you know, why
you chose it. And tell us, you
know, all of these details. Anything else
you really need to pick this up again
and start with the same understanding
that you left it with. Optimization, callbacks,
you know, just give us everything. um and
this is all simple stuff right how the test
set was kept separate yeah maybe you can
ignore that particular one that's kind of easy
we use the code you know we use the split
um what metrics you know these are both uh
unbalanced in different ways uh there were
unique problems in the two and um and then
show us you know show us how you what you
did um confusion matrix these are pretty big
but do the best you can um i know that they
can get pretty pretty large um do the best
you can um and this is basically you know this
is just good coding um cut and paste from
your, from your, um, from your, uh, milestones. There is the
issue of whether you need to run
it all again. Um, I think you need
to, we need to see it and my apologies
for that. Um, but I need to see
that the entire thing runs. Uh,
and I need to see that. I just need
to see the output. So I have two weeks,
it'll be fine. Okay, then the
technical report, PDF form only, please. Just don't do anything
else with PDF. You'll write it in
Word or whatever. You could potentially
do it in a notebook and then print it out,
but make sure that it doesn't get all *******
up when you do that. That's not always a
good way to do things. When will you release
part A notebook? what I don't think
I released it I want you to make it yeah I
want you to write it I didn't give you a
template for this is that what you were
asking Ricardo yes that's correct I yeah
I'm a little bit late later so I do apologize
but you can write it you just take one
of your milestones and edit it okay got
it sounds good yeah okay yes jenny you
were right um okay so technical report uh again 100 points so
100 100 uh and you know you really
want to make this pretend you know
this is this is you know what you're
You're submitting to your boss, and
you have a promotion coming up in a
month or two, and you know, this is
what you want to use to show your value to
the company, right? Professional
documentation, thoughtful analysis, evidence
-based conclusions. Put a title page, okay? And just use this
organization. Use these letters. Helps us. human is
going to read this and make it follow this.
You don't have to. In fact, it's probably best not to say one, two. It gets a little clunky
when you do that, but definitely have
this as a rubric heading and describe the
problem. Again, humor me. There's a plausible
business context for this. You've already
done some of that. And again, much of this you can summarize
from your You could give some
examples, the source, what the
challenge is. Show us some examples,
you know, and summarize
what the features, how important they were. If you have
anything really heavy, put it
in an appendix. Like list many, if
you don't want to, most graphics, you
don't want to go away. over one page.
You want something with text around
it. If you have multiple, put that
in an appendix. Talk about the
methodology. How did you choose? What preprocessing did you do? For Food 101, you
certainly had to do some normalization
and resizing. If you Um, how much vocabulary
did he use, right? Most of these messages
were pretty short. Most of the texts
were pretty short. Um, how, how, uh,
you know, how you chose it, how you
chose the final model, uh, how
you trained it, parameters. Uh, and this is, this is, uh, for, you know, Anybody
who's well-versed in the subject could
read this, okay? And let's see,
yep, yep, yep. Quantitative results
show the specific, you know, metrics, explain
what they reveal. Here's where some,
you know, you might want to,
well, let's say if you want to talk
about whether you, yeah, I mean, either
here in the preprocessing part or, you know,
interpretation, why you merge, you know, why you merge
those classes. Um, and then I want
you to, uh, talk about what
errors occurred, um, model related
limitations. If, if it took too
much processing power, you weren't
able to do it. Um, and then if you
were going to have more time, what would
you have done? You know, you might think
about augmentation. You might, uh,
think about changing the architecture. You
might think about, you know, whether
you changed, you did something different,
used different embeddings, or
maybe, you know, different techniques,
and a thoughtful reflection on what you
learned. And then at the end, you'll tell
us about the AI use. If the best model
was still falling short, should we improve
on it? Alfred, what do you mean was
still falling short? You mean it wasn't doing as well as you
thought, or? Yeah, kind of. The
model was not much better than what
I started with, but it was still
kind of more. It was not much better
than the baseline? Yeah, it was better
than the baseline, but still, let's
just say the accuracy was still
below 80%. Oh, okay. What do you mean,
should we improve on it? I mean, what
were you thinking? I mean, I'm not sure
exactly what you mean by that. You mean,
should you mention it as potential
improvements for the future or should you
keep working on it? Yeah, I was wondering
if I should keep working on it, yeah,
or mention it as something we can
improve on later on. I forget what we
did at the end of, I mean, I'm sort of, I
was sort of assuming that you had, I don't
remember exactly the wording for
Milestone 2. did I say this is your
absolute best model? I think I was probably sort of vague about that. If you have time, sure, try to try to improve it. What did I say here? Yeah, I mean,
I didn't think that you were
going to be doing a lot of work after
Milestone 2. So, I mean, it's
sort of unfair to ask you to go
redo everything. I'm more
interested in how you describe
your workflow, how thorough the
workflow is. You know, these data
sets are hard. That's why I chose
them. I think they're fairly realistic. They're
big. They're messy. There are, as some
pointed out, you know, there are
duplicate categories. I mean, these are
messy data sets. So that's what I wanted
to see. They're hard. So which one did
you use, Alfred? Oh, I actually, I
use the text data set and I condense certain
classes, but I noticed that even though the
final model got a result, I think somewhere
in the 75% to 78 % range, I expect it
to be maybe somewhat, I thought 80% or high
would be ideal, but maybe I'm wrong about
that. I don't know. Yeah, you're not going
to get above 90% in this. That's probably
not too bad, actually. Oh, 75% not
too bad? Okay. I was thinking 80
% was not too bad. No, don't worry about
that number so much as your workflow, how
you thought about it, because some data sets
are just resistant. This is a really
messy data set, but unfortunately, a lot
of data sets are messy. You're the person
who's supposed to make sense of them. So
don't worry so much about the specific
numbers involved, and don't spend another
week trying to fine -tune it. i mean if you
want to that's great what what uh what
what uh what model did you use did you
use bird or something like that alfred i
wanted to make sure it would run quickly
so i used this distillbert model but
it still took about an hour and a half to
run with t4 yeah okay and you only got
75 percent actually more like 76
77 for testing and validation
yeah now i remember now. I don't
remember what I got. Look, if that's
what you got, that's what you got. I'm
not going to, in this course, in this
module, there hasn't been an absolute bar,
you know, that you have to get above.
And people have very different machines
and so forth. So, yeah. Professor, for me,
when I used Distilber, so I started with the
baseline of macro at 47%. When I got to
Distilber, I only got up to 50 percent for the
f1 macro so because i guess i did my different
than his i didn't get beyond 50 so that's
what i got is that yeah that's but that
is the model that i got and i did explain
what i would do next can i leave it like that
do i have to do look i'm not gonna i'm not
gonna put a number here and say you know
to get an a you need above so many percent
i i just don't think that's fair uh people
have very different environments um i
don't know i'm i'm more interested in as i said
your analysis uh and being thorough and
documenting it carefully um so even for um
milestone two i left it like that because for
me to try 10 different versions i would need
like a whole bunch just running the 10 different
versions so yeah well if you can get
better result that'd be great but i'm not again
i'm not judging you on the final number
okay i mean i documented what i did exactly
because you asked the same thing like 10
different ways i explained it in 10 different
ways i didn't know what else it does i just
left it like that okay thank you just just to
give you a comparison i spent oh a good two
weeks at the end of uh last i don't know
when it was last semester and i was
trying to get some of these diffusion
models to run. And I failed utterly
and completely. I mean, I just, it just
never, I never got it to work. But I
documented everything. I had all of my attempts
written down. And I, you know, I had a
notebook where I kept trying, because I
want to go back to it. I want to find out
what I was doing wrong. And I'm not saying
that if you failed completely and
utterly, that it's all fine. But But you
don't always get the results you want.
That's just life. So I'm more interested
in your workflow. I want Matt to
comment in a moment. Let me
take Alfred again. Oh, I just realized
something. Maybe I meant wrongly, but
I'm also into it. It implies something
about potentially later improving on the results
by doing a little bit of fine-tuning.
Not a lot, but a little bit. I meant
fine-tuning. I didn't mean changing models
and going and doing a completely different
thing. Okay, I'm not going to do
that. you work with things you may find
sure but i was not intending this to be
another massive coding session i was kind
of wrapping it up and if you want to do
some fine that that my impression matt
do you want to do you want to weigh in here
and talk about um i i how let's talk
about what you noticed when you were
grading milestone one and how you know
what's the right way to you know, when you
describe for the text. Do you have any advice? I think it's just a
matter of explaining what it is that you
did. I mean, I think if you just go back to
the code, it's just following along with
what the requirements were and just explaining
it as best you can. And, you know, there's
three of you that, well, on most teams,
there's three of you. And so, you know,
pass it to the next person and see if it
makes sense to them. Right. Remember John's comment, concise and precise. Was that it, John? You got it right. Yes, that is my intention. Precise and concise. I don't know. And when
we say 8 to 10 pages, yeah, 8 is probably
the minimum, but 10 is about right, too. Don't
give us 40, please. Right, right, right,
right. And, you know, I have found, folks,
that AI doesn't do a good job, very
good job, usually, at these text things. They
can organize things, but they're very
generic. It's very middle of the road. It's
very boilerplate-ish. And I've used chat to,
not Claude so much, but chat to help with
lessons, but I always end up rewriting it.
So please don't get caught into letting
chat figure this out, because it usually
produces substandard prose. It's average
substandard. Matt, you're a writer, so you
know this, right? Oh, absolutely. And
the other thing, too, is that a lot of times
what they'll come back with is it'll look
like a bullet point list, you know, almost
like a presentation. Yeah. You want a narrative,
right? Right. Don't rely on the
AI to give you a good a good narrative.
You really need to incorporate
things in there and not just, you know,
list a bunch of things, you know,
where that makes sense or a table where
that makes sense. But don't a bunch
of bullet points for every. Yeah. ChatGPT
loves to do that. Yeah. So just be
careful of that as well. Try to try to
use your prose and, you know, practice
writing a little bit. Yeah. Yep. Good. Good advice. Anyway, any
other questions? I don't, I didn't
really have anything else
planned, folks. And I'm happy to
talk some more. Sung does, she have
her hand up. Oh, Sung, sorry. Yes, sorry. Hi,
so I have a list of questions, so probably
about everyone else. I'm assuming the
notebook should be, I'm doing IPNYB,
and then EDA you're referring to as modeling
and the pipeline is modeling and EDA.
and the final mod i'm assuming is the
one that did the best and for technical
report eight to ten pages in pdf form does
the title page and the aiu's reference
count towards the eight to ten pages or
no matt as a writer title page i don't
think so no and the appendix is no and
and don't put a ton of stuff in the appendix
either when you're using your your your
plots and stuff you know use them
judiciously but try to incorporate them in your
narrative as well don't just throw them all
in the in the back okay when you say the
final model that's the model that worked
the best i'm assuming that's the one that you
would choose to deploy okay so can i like use
my judgment as to what graphs going to appendix
part and what goes into my paper portion
sure sure and then can i have a section for
reference itself i'll probably have reference
sections look up things is that allowed
or not loud besides ai appendix or it's allowed
i don't need think you need to do it but
if you want to give references that's fine
don't go crazy it's not a research paper it's
a it's a it's a paper about your experience
so do you want the paper to help but if you
referred to some source and that helped you
sure sure yeah and then do you want three
pages of references oh no it'll be it'll be
like five or six but i have to look up the
because i don't five or six pages or five or six
or five or six bullet like list of references
yeah so and then for before i convert the
pdf the word document can i use font 12 times
the wrong one page one each margin 12 is
good yeah okay Okay. And time to roam is
okay with you? Do you want some of the fun
time? Make it readable. Okay. Thank you. Anyway, happy to talk
more on Piazza or, you know, any way that
you talk to the LFs. They'll be grading
it. And we look forward to seeing
what you have. Let's see. If
the best model is still falling
short. Yeah. Okay. no more okay anything
else folks i uh we could end a little early
i don't really have anything else to say
um one last thing so for first as i mentioned
that my macro f1 they're only a few
percent better for the f1 for distoper but then
when i use a regular f1 it was at closer
to 60 but i had to use macro f1 because
it's imbalanced data so then it corrected
itself but then i don't have that output they
otherwise have to run that also um is that
normal that it would be lower with the
macro f1 versus regular f1 oh oh sure yeah
these can change okay what should i have
really gotten because 50 something to like close
to 60 it's not that much different i mean
still better these data sets are hard
yeah how would you have done as you get at least
10 points more like then what I would have
done basically say again how would you
have done a second at least 10 points more
out of the model because even at this point
if I do 10 miles I was doing I did text with
this dober I probably would have spent
some time on pre -processing this is a
really messy data set and i don't know i i i
didn't do much better uh the time it's not much
enough if i had two weeks to just do better
i can do this but there's not enough time
with the other class yeah so i mean realistic
and knowing what we have at this point
and if i would think ahead to do something
else how would you would you do the pre
-processing better before you go to modeling so
you don't have end up like this for like
it's not just us and me basically i thought
there was uh i i don't I don't know that I
can, I did this a while back, but I felt that
there was probably some preprocessing
or there's some, just handing it to Distilbert.
I felt like maybe this could have been,
I felt like there was more that could be done
with the preprocessing and more with maybe
aligning Distilbert, training it on something
that was similar but not the exact data
set and then trying it again i'm not sure
um it's a difficult data set i mean when
i wrote it because of the model i put down
it did a lot better because it is considered
a lot better based on the fact that the
way it was set up but real world 50 60 is
not really anything you need to be close
to the 80 or 90 right important thing is
where are the errors are they i mean did the
error that's why a confusion i I didn't
spend enough time talking about confusion matrices
and how to adapt from them, and I'm
going to do that in the new course I'm
designing for the first semester. But if you
look at the confusion matrix and you really
dig in and start looking at where it went
wrong, see, that can tell you, that can give
you some real information about the fit between
your model and the data. And, you
know, you might find that two categories are
really pretty close. Now, it would depend
on your business objective, right?
I didn't tell you don't have
anything specific to work from, so
it's kind of hard, right? But if
your business objective
involved, you know, you could somehow
collapse this down to a smaller number of
classes, maybe that, you know, then you'd
have better accuracy. So there's a lot of
missing pieces here. So I have some in
confusion. I did the confusion matrix after
I did this doper, but there's some are almost
zero, close to zero. So for those,
should I drop those? What would you do
with something that's almost your very
small sample size? You mean, I'm
sorry, the category? Yeah, I did the
confusion matrix after this doper, and then
some categories, a few that were close to
zero. with not too many sample sizes
for the headlines and the summary that's
concagulated? Right, and that penalizes the
final result, yeah. So would you drop
those? That's a very reasonable
thing to do. But the point is that I have
given you a hard assignment because
I haven't told you what purpose
this is for, right? And the business
motivation for the whole project and
the domain knowledge, And you know, these
are going to give you pointed, you know,
you're going to be able to look at the
data set and say, you know what, I really
want to cut these out because they're
really got nothing to do with what
we're trying to do. And you might get a much better result
if you can find, if you can
tune it towards a particular purpose. Right. But I'm just
giving you this vague thing. Oh,
invent a business purpose, which
is, you know, and then see, you found
some duplicate. You know, you were
talking about some duplicate categories.
There were more, actually. That's
exactly the kind of thing that makes
sense, you know. Yeah. There's a lot
of categories, right? I mean, this is a
very confusing problem because there's so many
different categories. And some of them
didn't have – it was so unbalanced. So this
is where domain – I hate to just push it
off on this, but I think realistically,
domain knowledge and – I mean, when I have
done work, for example, I was – I was did a
project with somebody on musical instrument
recognition, having audio files, and I
know a fair amount about it, and so did
he. And so we were able to do some pre
-processing that made it, we got very good
results because we both were musicians and knew
something about it, and we knew exactly
what we wanted to do. The goal was clear
cut, and so the pre-processing
was much simpler. uh but in this case i
didn't give you it's a little bit unfair
i didn't give you an exact business purpose
and and and you know oh domain knowledge
about these little snippets i don't know
it's hard to say what that would be but um
one last question i mean given i'm just saying
don't stress about it because i know a very
unstructured problem in some sense and
i'm more interested in and i think matt
would back me up on this we are more interested
in your reasoning and explain your analysis
and your reasoning what what choices did
you make given that this was a difficult
data set in real world you have such a
highly imbalanced all those cats it's possible
you you could be missing categories also
most likely most i'm sure it is missing
category you should probably split better
how would you go by splitting better making
the category someone didn't do it what would
you do because it's most likely that's the
case with this data set i don't i don't
have a specific recommendation there i
mean but uh about the most you could do with this
one is say you know these categories are
really the same thing uh in general and
you combine them but for a specific purpose
you know a specific business objective you
might find that the And, you know, there's
so many things you could do, you could
take this data set and you could do unsupervised
learning on it, you know, and then see
where the groups are. And you could label
them and see, you know, you could, there's
a lot of things you could do to try to
explore how close, you know, how separated
these things are. And then that would give
you a sense for, you know, the natural
groupings in these texts. and in these samples
but you know I didn't ask you to do that
there's a lot of things you could do to explore
the data further I think it's a vague
agenda you know that that's maybe a little
hard to do okay thank you yeah you're
asking all the right questions as I like to
say let's see yeah no no you're not gonna get
great results on either one of these. That's
why I chose them. I just checked my
team achieved a test accuracy of
60. Oh, that's good. That's good. Marjorie, that was,
oh, yeah, yeah. That's good. That's actually
very good. Yeah, it's hard to
get good results with this. I
mean, we were hoping above 80 percent.
That was our original, you know, because in
Milestone One, you were asking for a
target that, you know, that we were, that we
had to set. And we were hoping that we would
do at least as good as 80%, but it's not, it's
not what we got. So what's more interesting
here. And again, there's always things
to do to go forward with this. But one thing
that I would say, you know, in the three things
you might think is, is to do a little more
EDA on it. Once you And then you can go
back and say, okay, what have I learned
about this data? What are the groupings?
Which, looking at the confusion matrix is
really interesting, but it takes time. It's
hard. You know, you got to look at them and
then compare them and think about, but it
tells you where your model, exactly where
your model went wrong. Classification is
great because there's so many different
metrics. And to explore those metrics and
think about different classes, why did the,
you know, why did some classes get
classified very accurately and others not? Did
they get confused? You know, you could
see that certain categories maybe
are ill-defined, you know, and you're
constantly confusing them. So, like when you
do digits, you know, and the 4 ends up
looking at the 9 or the 3 ends up looking at the,
you know, and there's certain letters that
just are going to look the same and they're
going to get confused. And this tells you
something interesting about your data, whether
you can solve it or not. But a next step
might be to go back and really do some more
EDA on this, given now that you know how well
it did on all, you could look at the results
for each class, how well did it do on each
class, and look at the confusion matrix and
see where the problems are, and that might
tell you, again, given domain knowledge,
given a more specific goal, it might tell you
that these two categories are getting confused,
but you know what, we don't care, we'll
lump them together, you know, for whatever
we're doing this for. And so there's a lot
of things you can do. And looking back at
your data through the lens of a model, it's
hard to do with text, I would say.
But looking back at it is an
interesting thing. You know, lots
of things to try. So any other
questions? Let's see. Did you do
macro F1 before that? I got that
also. Oh, good. Yeah. Okay. Any other good questions?
Good questions. Smart group. Okay.
We're looking forward to reading
your final reports. And I think
we'll stop here. Joining this week's
live session. This has been a
presentation of Boston University
and VU Virtual.